details.md, before:

---
title: The Pennytoken Specification
layout: page
---

## Token format

 Tokens are flat json arrays. This way they can be appended as url parameterst to `http` `GET` requests.
 

    {
       "pennytoken-service-provider" : "Identifying domain of the service provider
                                        that issued the token."
       "pennytoken-token-secret"     : "The secret that uniquely identifies 
                                        the token."
    }

 
 The value of the pennytoken is not part of the token itself. 
 Instead the service provider responds with the value of the token 
 when the token is verified and cached-in by the content provider.
 
## Micropayment service providers

Service providers are identified by their domains.
 
## Interaction between content provider and user

 This is the part of the micropayment infrastructure that benefits most from standardization because it allows the user 
 to use the same kind of tokens, bought from the same service provider with many content providers.
 
 The content provider can announce that it supports pennytoken micropayment 
 services by including an element of the following format in the `html` of any page it serves.
 It is important that this information is also sent in pages that are freely accessible without pennytokens.
 For example, it can be included in the landing page, or in ad-supported pages 
 that can alternatively be served without ads when pennytokens are passed.
 

    <meta pennytoken-content='
        {
            "providers" : ["list of ident. domains of supported service providers"]
            "contents" :[
                {
                    "urls"    : ["list of regex patterns matching all urls of this 
                                  content provider that support/require pennytokens."],
                    "price"   : "token price per page load in fractions of dollar cents",
                    "feature" : "a description of what is offered 
                                 in exchange for the tokens. E.g. no ads"
                }
            ]
        }'
    >


    
The users browser plugin parses the information in html and manages when tokens are sent. 
How this is done is left to the implementation. However, the intention is NOT that the user confirms the issue
of a token on every page request. 

Tokens are sent by adding the pennytoken json array as url parameters to the `GET` request that requests the content which the pennytokens are payment for. 

The content provider caches in and thereby verifies the the tokens and responds to the get request. 

## Interaction between micropayment service provider and user

The interactoin between micropayment serivce provider and user is not standardized except for the areas that ensure that any browser plugin which implements the standard is compatible with every provider.
To this end, the tokens which are purchased by the user must be made available by including the following meta tag in the `html` of a page served on the `https` identifying domain of the provider:

 
    <meta pennytoken-tokens="link to a json file with a json list of fresh tokens">
 

## Interaction between content provider and mircopayment service provider

The cumulative payment which eventually flows from the service provider to the content provider will require a business relationship in order to provent the micropayment service from being absued as a money laundry.
While multiple competing micropayment service proivders supported by the content provider, this might appear cumbersome at first. However, every micropayment service provider can act as a proxy to competing providers and thereby accept tokens issued by those as well. Therefore, a service provider can support tokens from many service providers while only interacting with a single service proivder.

The API of the micropayment service provider should offer a call that simultaneously verifies, caches in and devalues the tokens.

A `POST` to `https://<identifying-domain-of-service-provider>/cashIn/` with the information about
 * service provider that issued the token
 * token secret
 * identifying information about the content proivder

should return the value of the token or an error if the token is invalid.
This implies that if the same content is `POST`ed twice it will return an error on the second time, becuase the token has been invalideated on the first call.

Commit message:

define how plugin announces itself

details.md, after:

---
title: The Pennytoken Specification
layout: page
---

# Protocol version 0.1

## Token format

 Tokens are flat json arrays. This way they can be appended as url parameterst to `http` `GET` requests.
 

    {
       "pennytoken-service-provider" : "Identifying domain of the service provider
                                        that issued the token."
       "pennytoken-token-secret"     : "The secret that uniquely identifies 
                                        the token."
    }

 
 The value of the pennytoken is not part of the token itself. 
 Instead the service provider responds with the value of the token 
 when the token is verified and cached-in by the content provider.

## The user 

The user's browser must support the pennytoken standard. Most easily this can be achieved via a browser plugin.
The user's browser should announce its support for the pennytoken standard by issuing a custom event

    var event = new CustomEvent('pennytoken-supported', { 'version': 0.1 });
    document.dispatchEvent(event);


 
## Micropayment service providers

Service providers are identified by their domains.
 
## Interaction between content provider and user

 This is the part of the micropayment infrastructure that benefits most from standardization because it allows the user 
 to use the same kind of tokens, bought from the same service provider with many content providers.
 
 The content provider can announce that it supports pennytoken micropayment 
 services by including an element of the following format in the `html` of any page it serves.
 It is important that this information is also sent in pages that are freely accessible without pennytokens.
 For example, it can be included in the landing page, or in ad-supported pages 
 that can alternatively be served without ads when pennytokens are passed.
 

    <meta pennytoken-content='
        {
            "providers" : ["list of ident. domains of supported service providers"]
            "contents" :[
                {
                    "urls"    : ["list of regex patterns matching all urls of this 
                                  content provider that support/require pennytokens."],
                    "price"   : "token price per page load in fractions of dollar cents",
                    "feature" : "a description of what is offered 
                                 in exchange for the tokens. E.g. no ads"
                }
            ]
        }'
    >


    
The users browser plugin parses the information in html and manages when tokens are sent. 
How this is done is left to the implementation. However, the intention is NOT that the user confirms the issue
of a token on every page request. 

Tokens are sent by adding the pennytoken json array as url parameters to the `GET` request that requests the content which the pennytokens are payment for. 

The content provider caches in and thereby verifies the the tokens and responds to the get request. 

## Interaction between micropayment service provider and user

The interactoin between micropayment serivce provider and user is not standardized except for the areas that ensure that any browser plugin which implements the standard is compatible with every provider.
To this end, the tokens which are purchased by the user must be made available by including the following meta tag in the `html` of a page served on the `https` identifying domain of the provider:

 
    <meta pennytoken-tokens="link to a json file with a json list of fresh tokens">
 

## Interaction between content provider and mircopayment service provider

The cumulative payment which eventually flows from the service provider to the content provider will require a business relationship in order to provent the micropayment service from being absued as a money laundry.
While multiple competing micropayment service proivders supported by the content provider, this might appear cumbersome at first. However, every micropayment service provider can act as a proxy to competing providers and thereby accept tokens issued by those as well. Therefore, a service provider can support tokens from many service providers while only interacting with a single service proivder.

The API of the micropayment service provider should offer a call that simultaneously verifies, caches in and devalues the tokens.

A `POST` to `https://<identifying-domain-of-service-provider>/cashIn/` with the information about
 * service provider that issued the token
 * token secret
 * identifying information about the content proivder

should return the value of the token or an error if the token is invalid.
This implies that if the same content is `POST`ed twice it will return an error on the second time, becuase the token has been invalideated on the first call.
